After learning about slots which allow us to distribute content, I now want to add some other dynamic
thing we can add to our components, specifically how we can use something called dynamic components.
Now what are dynamic components?
Well imagine you not only have your quote here which you registered as a component but you do have two
other components,
let's say you also have the appAuthor component and the appNew component.
Now I will quickly create these files here so I have my Author.vue file and then I have my
New.vue file, a lower case v here. And then I'll quickly copy my quote in there,
remove the styling,
don't need that
and all I want to display here inside this div is a h3 tag where I say The Author,
so just some dummy content
and in my new quote or excuse me in my new component, I also only want to display new quote. So we're not
able to do anything here because I want to show something else
but we do have three distinct components now.
With that, I can quickly import them here, so the author
and of course also
the new file and then assign it here.
So three components in place,
we know that setup,
now I want to dynamically decide which one to display here,
I don't want to display all three,
I'm not going to add app author and so on,
I'm not going to add all the selectors.
Instead I only have one place here where I want to display any of the three components depending on which
button was pressed,
so I will add three buttons here
above this component part.
The first one will select the quote component,
the second one will select the author component and the last one will select the new component.
To make this happen, I'll add a new field in my data property and there, I want to store the new property
selected component let's say and by default, this shall be my
app quote component or app quote written like this,
so the name of the selector here basically.
So this will be my default component
and here when I click this, I will set @click,
well in this case here I want to say selected component
equals app quote,
so the default but in the other two cases, I of course want to select appAuthor and here, I want to select
appNew.
Now that's not doing anything though,
I set this up so I can change this property but it doesn't have any effect.
We can see it if I print it out here, let's simply output selected component to see if it generally
works.
So if we save this and I click author and new, we see it change
but now I want to also change the
atually loaded component down there. To do this, I'll introduce a so-called dynamic component,
how do we do that? For this,
I will comment out the old selector here so that we still can see it but now I use the component, component
here.
This selector is a reserved word just like slot, component is also recognized by vuejs and component allows
us to dynamically add components. I can bind component to a property which holds the component which
should get loaded.
So here to bind it, I have to use the is attribute and use a colon to bind it to a data property, so
to a dynamic property
and then I want to bind this to selected component, like that.
What this does is and is a keyword of course,
what this does is that this component now gets bound to the selected component property down there which
is appQuote by default and it will then have a look at the value of selected component which has to be a
string and that string is then interpreted as the selector of the component which now should get loaded
dynamically,
so appQuote by default.
Therefore if I save this and I reload this, well we still see it work but we don't pass any content
of course because I don't have a content in between. If I now say default content here in between, well
we see that gets occupied down there in our default slot.
Now watch what happens if I load the author,
now we the author component and with new, we see the new quote component and with quote, we go back to the default
content.
This is how we can use dynamic components to dynamically replace a part in our template with different
components triggered by for example button clicks and stored in a property which is bound with the is
keyword here.